# Wagner-Whitin-Algorithm-python-

Dynamic programming An algorithmic technique for solving an optimization problem by breaking it down into simpler subproblems and utilizing the fact that the optimal solution to the overall problem depends upon the optimal solution to its subproblems. 

Wagner Whitin Algorithm is used to find the optimal lot size for each period when net requirements are known for several periods into the future. Under an optimal lot-sizing policy either the inventory carried to period t +1from a previous period will be zero or the production quantity in period t + 1 will be zero. This result greatly facilitates computation of optimal production quantities. We willproduce either nothing or exactly enough to satisfy demand in the current period plus some integer number of future periods. We could compute the minimum-cost production schedule by enumerating all possible combinations of periods in which production occurs. However, since we can either produce or not produce in each period, the number of such combinations is 2 N -1, which can be quite large if many periods are considered. To be more efficient, Wagner-Whitin suggested an algorithm that is well suited to computer implementation. 

In the example of the first question, we can see that the optimal production for periods 1 and 2 should be done in period 1 itself. When we look for period 3, we have the options to produce in period 1, 1 &2, 1 & 3, and 1,2 &3. But actually, we need to consider only the first three cases as we only need to consider when we are going to produce the demand for period 3. If we decide to produce in period 3, then we know that it will be optimal to produce for periods 1 and 2 in period 1. Hence, we are using the techniques of solving successively longer horizon problems and using the solutions form the previous steps to reduce the amount of computation in each step which is basically what the principle of Dynamic programming is. It allows us to consider all possible solutions without explicitly computing the cost of each one.
